>> Mike North: Getting a little bit
more involved here, there is support for
generics, so if anyone here has
worked with Android apps, or
other languages that support parameterized
types, this is what that looks like.
The benefit here, before we look at
what it does exactly, we want all
of the benefits of our
build-time type safety.
But we may want to operate across
a variety of different types.
So in this case, we've got a function
with some interesting annotations here.
Some interesting stuff in the comments.
It's called gimmieFive, and
if we look at what the function does,
it creates an array with
pre-allocated with five spaces.
And then it will fill all of
the items from zero, one, two, three,
and four with a copy of or a reference to
whatever item is passed into the function.
So if I pass into students,
we're going to get an array with
five copies of that string.
Students, students, students,
students, students.
Right, five times.
And so the type of this variable here,
type of students,
is going to be an array of strings.
So we can push something in it,
and it should work just fine.
It will be great.
Now if we do something like this and
we push in when we say gimmieFive,
we pass in an object like that.
The type of this object variable
here is gonna be a little bit
different than what you might expect,
especially if you're coming
from the Java world or
the nominally typed world where you'd
say that's an array of objects.
Really it's an array of this type here.
It's an array of objects who have
a property key whose value is a string.
So when we try to push an empty object
in here whose structure doesn't match,
that it has no key or
if we provided a key and
they had a number as the value,
it would object in a very similar way.
The structure did not match.
But that's the idea behind a generic.
Now let's look at how we're defining it.
What we're saying here, this line here
says I have a parameterized type and
I'm going to refer to it as T,
meaning we'll figure it out later.
Whatever T is,
we're going to refer to it later.
But here on out, when I say capital T,
I mean whatever type we happen
to be working with here.
I take as a parameter called item,
I take a parameter called item and
its type is T, and
whatever I return, it is an array of Ts,
so when I give this function a string,
T becomes string and so
I return an array of strings.
When I give it a number, I say give
me five and I pass the number one in.
It's gonna give me back
an array of numbers, right.
Whatever you pass it, it's gonna
return an array of the same type.
>> Mike North: So that is a generic.
Now, we can use generics more
deliberately using a syntax like this.
So, this is useful when dealing with
things like arrays and promises,
usually containers for
other values, right?
Where what we're effectively saying is,
I am a promise,
or promise-looking thing that
resolves to a string Right?
This is useful, because now we can
type not only that it's a promise, but
that it resolves to the correct thing.
And so if we were expecting to take
a promise that resolves to a number
as an argument, type script would
provide us some safety here.
It would let us know I'm
not supposed to mix those,
it's not going to give me what I want.
You may look at this and
see, we might have some JSX issues,
that's true.
So this predates JSX.
There are some loopholes that we can use.
For example, we can use this here
instead of something like this.
And this will only really bite you
in TypeScript where that kind of
expression lives outside of a comment,
right.
But this here might throw
TypeScript off a little bit
in particular when we talk about casting.
In TypeScript, which for
those who are going to the TypeScript
workshop later, it looks kinda like this.
This is only valid in TypeScript.
We're basically saying cast 31 to a number
but this looks a lot like JSX, so
we run into problems there.